# Automatic-generation-and-resolution-of-2d-maze
Python code write in spyder IDE to generate and solve automatically 2 dimensions mazes.

The list of script and their purpose:

	-MazeGenerators.py:

		This script contain the functions to generate a maze as a 2d numpy array. The functions stored are:

			-CreateMazeBase: Generate the basis that will be used by the first method to generate automatically a maze with the function MazeFormation.

			-CreateMazeBaseBoolean: Generate the basis that will be used by the second method to generate automatically a maze with the function MakeMazeExhaustif.

			-MazeFormation: First method to generate automatically a maze, take in input the output of the function CreateMazeBase. It will randomly draw 2 indices between 1 and len(Base)-2, then if it is a wall it break it by putting a 0 and the newly 2 conected ground node are set at 2. It continue until all the ground, starting and ending nodes are not connected together.

			-MakeMazeExhaustif: Second method to generate automatically a maze. It take in input the output of the function CreateMazeBase. It randomly draw a position correponding to a ground node and change it's value from 0 to one. Then it randomly choose a unvisited other ground node in its four neighbours. It break the wall wall with a 1 and set the new gound node position to 1. It continue while all of his neighbours are visited. Then if all ground, starting and ending nodes are connected it stop, else it take the exact path it retraces his steps until he finds a possible passage, and rebreak the wall.

			-MakeMazeComplex: This function will transform the maze in order that their will multiple paths from start to end. To achieve this goal, it randomly break some walls that are separating two ground nodes.


	-MazeSolvers.py:

		This script contain the functions to solve a maze generate by the functions in 'MazeGenerators.py'. The functions stored are:

			-MazeReductionDE: Look at the ground nodes, and if they are dead end, it turn them in wall. Note that if you did not use the function MakeMazeComplex, there will be only remain the unic straight path.

			-MazeGradient: Generate 2d numpy array of int with -1 for walls, and the other values are the number of nodes to the ending node which is at 1. It continue until all the ground nodes have not been explored.

			-DescenteGradMaze: Using the distance map to the ending node with the number of ground nodes for metric, generated by the function MazeGradient, it begin at the starting node and choose the lowest value superior to -1 until it reached the ending node.

			-StepRightHandSolve: Updating the position and the direction of the direction of the explorator in function of its position and watch direction, with condition that he have to always keep his 'right hand' glued to a wall.
			
			-StepLeftHandSolve: Updating the position and the direction of the direction of the explorator in function of its position and watch direction, with condition that he have to always keep his 'left hand' glued to a wall.
			
			-WallHandSolve: Solve the maze with the mehod of following continuously the same wall while we are out from the starting to the ending node. Note that there will probably be multiple 'backward on his steps'.
			
			-TriHandSolvePath: This function will browse the list of positions in the array Chemin and remove all the 'backward' due to dead-end or loop (roundabout).

	-MazeImshow.py: 
		This script contain the functions to show the mazes, their solution path, and the distance from ground nods to the exit nod.
	
			-FullLabyrinthe: Automatic generation and resolution of mazes with the method in MazeGenerators.py and MazeSolvers.py. Show of the maze at different step is also possible through the variable Plot. It is also possible to know the time took by the step throug the variable Timing.
		
			-ShowMaze: Function to show the maze once it is build. It is possible to add the path from start to exit and the gradient of the distance of the ground nods to the exit nod.
